# Frontend

## Notable Technologies

Uses Vite, React and Typescript as the Framework, UI library and language respectfully. 
Uses MaterialUI and ShadCN for component libraries. (ShadCN uses tailwind for its styling)
Uses fetch and react-query to handle api calls and state management.
Uses react-router-dom for frontend page navigation

ShadCN is a newer technology that I was recommended to checkout by some people, I found it slightly confusing to get started with, but once the theming was figured out it has some very easy to use components, especially its chart integration with recharts and form components with react-hook-form which I've traditionally used on its own. 

## General Architecture

Entry point to the application is Main.tsx. There we wrap the application in the BrowserRouter context from react-router-dom, enabling page navigation.
We also wrap the application in the ThemeProvider so the entire application is consistently themed. 

The `api` folder defines our fetch api calls to the backend. 

The `app` folder is where we define the different pages that can be accessed, as well as has the global website title

The `assets` folder holds static resources like the analog logo that appears in the browser tab

The `components` folder holds general reusable components, all components under `ui` are generated by shadCN. Others are created by myself

The `hook` folder holds the custom hooks defined for the application. Houses our custom react-query hooks that are used to track the state of our api calls. 

The `pages` folder defines our main pages of the application. The main dashboard, the individual producer page, and then the create and edit forms which are abstracted to use the same form view. 

The `utils` folder houses miscellaneous objects like our frontend types, frontend routes, and backend urls

## Development

To run the application

ensure you are on `node 20`

cd into this directory

run `echo BACKEND_URL='http://localhost:8080' > .env`

run `npm install`

run `npm run dev`

## Testing

Uses vitest as the testing framework

Uses react-testing-library to assist in UI Tests

Ensure you've done the above steps

run `npm test`

I used a decent amount of chatgpt to help out with the tests, but overwrote most of what it gave me to be much cleaner